Project Name: zRogue


Group size: One. Just me.


Abstract: A simple, lightwork game framework designed to help someone build a simple
roguelike game. The framework will provide the scaffolding to do windowing,
input, and ascii rendering. In addition to the framework, there will be a 
simple website that will provide a tutorial of how to make a simple roguelike 
game. The purpose is to help bring people to the zig programming language.


Background Knowledge: With Zig I would consider myself slightly above that 
of a novice. With things such as SDL I have familiarity but have never built
a full application. With the last part of Emscripten is a new technology to 
me.


Description: Zig is a language that has the potential to change the world, 
but it needs more momentum. Low level languages have a stigma to be hard.
Creating something that provides a learning enviornment for someone new to 
build a simple game with the language can help break that barrier. 


zRogue will be a library that will have seperate submodules. These modules
will handle different important aspects of a game. This will also be able 
to be compiled and used as a shared library in zig, or just used as copy/paste
library in a project. There are several tutorial type things for zig, but many
of them tend to be higher level concepts meant for more advanced programmers.
The most important thing that this can do is bring more people to the language.
Even bringing 1 new programmer to the language would be a win. Zig is able to 
cross-compile with c, and natively use c libraries. There are more powerful 
c libraries to accomplish these things that have been around for decades,
however there are no libraries built in zig for zig, with that style of programming.
This is intended to be a new age approach. 

The target audience would be new programmers. Those who have ambitions to work 
with lower level languages, and are coming from dynamic language backgrounds. As
the product is free, it will be hosted on github pages, making it possible for 
anyone to partake. This will hopefully lower the bar of entry.

As this will be a library along with a website all code, and pages will be hosted
on github directly. Everything will be developed locally, and will at first only 
suppport mac. Given time through the semester, I plan to work on ease of cross-
compilation with windows. 

Those who want to use this, will read and follow along with the website. 

The project's initial scope is small. When a simple gameplay loop is available, 
then the plan is to work on writing and making the tutorial part. This loop will
be windowing, rendering, input and simple game systems such as characters/enemies.


Significance: In terms of significance, what the creator of the language Zig, 
Andrew Kelley, has said to those who want to contribute to the language, the 
most important thing the foundation asks is for people to build projects in the
language. It is a way to contribute to the language as it is being created. 

For my life, showing and building an api as well as documentation for that api
will help me do what I want to one day do, which is build internal tools/libraries
for companies. 


New Computer Science Topics: API design is a build thing I have never had to do
before. Rendering, and opengl stuff will mostly be new for me. Documentation
is another new thing for me. I've never had to explain my large code bases 
before, but now that is not an option. Emscripten is also new. I've never had 
to embed a binary in a webpage before. 


Interestingness: This is rebuilding a project that got me interested in 
programming lower level languages as a whole. It is something that I find 
great excitement as it is sharing this field with others in an approachable
way. I also very much like roguelike games, and building tools to build other 
things. Zig is also something I love using.

Schedule: The project is split up into two 5 week periods with a remainder 2 week
period. The first 5 weeks are to build the outline and basic features of the 
library. The second 5 weeks are to build a simple game along with find bugs 
within the library and fix them as I build a simple generated map with monsters.
The last 2 week period is designed to port the simple app to the web, as well
as use MDbooks to write the tutorial. This is fast because MDbook allows
you to write simple books in markdown. 


Resources: Macbook, Zig (Master branch), ZLS (Zig language server), Neovim,
Zig discord server, https://bfnightly.bracketproductions.com/ (for inspiration,
not to copy).
